# general-revision

#### What happens when you hit a URL? Explain DNS lookup.

- Websites are collections of files (HTML, CSS, JS) that tell your browser how to display the site. Need to be accessible from anywhere so hosting them on your computer won't work. They need to be hosted on an external computer which is connected to the internet. This external computer is known as a server.

When you hit any URL, your browser has to figure out which server on the Internet is hosting the site. It does this by looking up the domain to find the address. 

Each device on the internet has a unique address called an IP address. An IP address contains 4 numbered parts. But numbers like these are hard to remember. That is where domain names come in. DNS (domain name system) helps our browser to find servers on the internet by doing a DNS lookup on the IP address.

#### What is a URLs full form? Explain what a url is and the four parts it consists of The protocol in use The hostname of the server The location of the file The arguments to the file

URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator. It is the address of a resource (webpage/file) on the Internet.

The four parts of the URL are:

1) **The scheme**: "https://" is the scheme. HTTPS stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. HTTPS tells the browser to make a connection to the server using TLS (Transfer Layer Security). TLS is an encryption protocol to secure communications over the internet. With HTTPS, the data exchanged between your browser & servers (e.g passwords / credit card info) is encrypted. Other protocols that browsers know to handle are **ftp://**, **mailto://**, **file://**
  2) **Domain**: The domain is the memorable address and it points to a specific server's IP address.
  3) **Path**: Path on server to the requested resource. Can be thought of like the directory structure
  4) **Resource**: This is the name of the resource that you wanted to see. Sometimes, if you see a file extension such as .html, this indicates that it is a static file on the server with HTML content. Without an extension, usually means that it was generated by the server. 

#### What is HTTP protocol?

HTTP is a protocol for fetching resources such as HTML documents. It is the foundation of any data exchange on the Web and it is a client-server protocol, which means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser.

#### What is TCP Protocol?

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation by which applications can exchange data. TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packets of data to each other.

#### Explain all the different HTTP methods?

GET: The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.

POST: The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.

PATCH: The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.

PUT: The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.

DELETE: The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.

#### What are HTTP headers?

HTTP headers let the client and the server pass additional information with an HTTP request or response. An HTTP header consists of its case-insensitive name followed by a colon ( : ), then by its value.

#### What are some HTTP response codes? what does it mean? 2xx, 3xx, 4xx, 5xx

 Status codes are issued by a server in response to a client's request made to the server. 

2xx successful – the request was successfully received, understood, and accepted
3xx redirection – further action needs to be taken in order to complete the request
4xx client error – the request contains bad syntax or cannot be fulfilled
5xx server error – the server failed to fulfil an apparently valid request

#### What does cache control on http response mean?

Cache-control is an HTTP header used to specify browser caching policies in both client requests and server responses. Policies include how a resource is cached, where it's cached and its maximum age before expiring (i.e., time to live).

#### What is polling?

Polling is a technique by which the client asking the server for new data regularly.

#### What is long polling?

long polling is a technique where the server elects to hold a client's connection open for as long as possible, delivering a response only after data becomes available or a timeout threshold happens.

#### What are web sockets?

WebSocket is bidirectional, a full-duplex protocol that is used in the same scenario of client-server communication, unlike HTTP it starts from ws:// or wss://. It is a stateful protocol, which means the connection between client and server will keep alive until it is terminated by either party (client or server). After closing the connection by either of the client and server, the connection is terminated from both ends. 

#### How is web sockets different from HTTP?

Unlike HTTP, where you have to constantly request updates, with websockets, updates are sent immediately when they are available. WebSockets keeps a single, persistent connection open while eliminating latency problems that arise with HTTP request/response-based methods

#### What is HTTPS?

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure is an extension of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It is used for secure communication over a computer network, and is widely used on the Internet. In HTTPS, the communication protocol is encrypted using Transport Layer Security or, formerly, Secure Sockets Layer

#### What is Cross Origin Resource Sharing? ( CORS ) Why do we need it?

Cross-origin resource sharing is a mechanism that allows restricted resources on a web page to be requested from another domain outside the domain from which the first resource was served. Modern browsers use CORS in APIs such as XMLHttpRequest or Fetch to mitigate the risks of cross-origin HTTP requests which can lead to security issues such as CSRF.

#### What does Access-Control-Allow-Origin header do?

The Access-Control-Allow-Origin header is included in the response from one website to a request originating from another website, and identifies the permitted origin of the request.

#### What is clickjacking? How do you fix it?

The malicious practice of manipulating a website user's activity by concealing hyperlinks beneath legitimate clickable content, thereby causing the user to perform actions of which they are unaware.

#### What are some performance metrics for your website?

1. Page Speed
2. Time to Title
3. Time to Start Render
4.  Time to Interact
5.  DNS Lookup Speed
6.  Time to First Byte

#### What does the following term mean?
##### Time to first byte

Time to First Byte (TTFB) refers to the time between the browser requesting a page and when it receives the first byte of information from the server. This time includes DNS lookup and establishing the connection using a TCP handshake and SSL handshake if the request is made over https.

##### Page load time

 page load time is the average amount of time it takes for a page to show up on your screen

#### What do CDN or Content Delivery Networks do? When do you need a CDN?

A content delivery network (CDN) refers to a geographically distributed group of servers which work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images,  and videos. CDN can improve perforance metrics, especially if you have to serve resources across the world.

#### What is the difference between Client Side Renderring and Server Side Renderring?

Client-side rendering manages the routing dynamically without refreshing the page every time a user requests a different route. But server-side rendering is able to display a fully populated page on the first load for any route of the website, whereas client-side rendering displays a blank page first.

##### What is Progressive Renderring

Progressive Rendering is the technique of sequentially rendering portions of a webpage in the server and streaming it to the client in parts without waiting for the whole page to rendered

#### What is the difference between Preloading and Prefetching resources?

By preloading a certain resource, you are telling the browser that you would like to fetch it sooner than the browser would otherwise discover it because you are certain that it is important for the current page.

Prefetching e is a technique for speeding up fetch operations by beginning a fetch operation whose result is expected to be needed soon



 
   

